Update the Contributing file to describe expectations of open PRs (#9075)
endless-sky/endless-sky: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Endless Sky

## Issues

### Posting issues

The [issues page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/issues) on GitHub is for tracking bugs and feature requests. When posting a new issue, please:

> * Check to make sure it's not a duplicate of an existing issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check to make sure it is not a duplicate of an existing issue.
```

* Create a separate "issue" for each bug you are reporting and each feature you are requesting.
* Choose the correct issue template and fill it out to the best of your ability.
* Do not use the issues page for things other than bug reports and feature requests. Use the [discussions page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions) instead.

If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting? Remember that this is a game, not a simulator. Changes will not be made purely for the sake of realism, especially if they introduce needless complexity or aggravation.

### Closing issues

> If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please open a new issue.

Reviewer 2: A more specific bit of text here I think is worth adding. The contrast reading has a slightly increased chance of sticking in people's memories after reading.

```suggestion
If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please do not reopen your issue. Please open a new issue and explain the gap that you feel still needs to be addressed.
```

> If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting within the existing scope of the game? Remember that this is not a simulator game; while you may find such games fun or interesting, that is not the type of game that Endless Sky is trying to be.

Reviewer 3: seems oddly specific to mention simulators here? There are a lot of other genres that also do not fit the bill. 

Edit: I see that it was on the old doc

Reviewer 4: I want to echo that I found the simulator statement a bit jarring in the existing doc and still find it a bit odd here. Could it make more sense to link to what ES _is_ trying to be rather than state what it _isn't_? Maybe something like "If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting within the existing scope of the game? Keep in mind [the existing tone and vision set for Endless Sky](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/Endless-Sky's-Vision)"

Reviewer 2: I too echo this sentiment, but I'd suggest not using that link since it *also* doesn't actually express what ES is trying to be in a particularly helpful way.

> If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please do not reopen your issue. Please open a new issue and explain the gap that you feel still needs to be addressed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please do not reopen your issue. Open a new issue and explain the gap that you feel still needs to be addressed.
```

Reviewer 4: I don't think it _really_ matters, but it probably doesn't hurt to err on the side of politeness/friendliness for this file's target audience of newer/less experienced contributors even it repeats please and thank you a bit.

## Pull requests

### Posting pull requests

If you are posting a pull request, please:

* Find if your pull request solves an existing issue. Note that just because an issue is open does not guarantee that it is something we will accept, as the number of issues we receive means that not all of them have been thoroughly discussed, and there may be open issues for features that we decide we do not want.
* Do not combine multiple unrelated changes.
* Check the diff and make sure the pull request does not contain unintended changes.
* If changing the C++ code, follow the [coding standard](https://endless-sky.github.io/styleguide/styleguide.xml).

> * Fill out the pull request template to the best of your ability. GitHub's pull request template features are not as thorough as issue templates. You're able to delete the entire pull request template and put in whatever you want; please do not do this. The purpose of the pull request template is to help facilitate the review, approval, and merging of pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fill out the pull request template to the best of your ability. GitHub's pull request template features are not as thorough as issue templates. You are able to delete the entire pull request template and put in whatever you want; please do not do this. The purpose of the pull request template is to help facilitate the review, approval, and merging of pull requests.
```

If proposing a major pull request, start by posting an issue and discussing the best way to implement it. Often the first strategy that occurs to you will not be the cleanest or most effective way to implement a new feature.

### What to expect when opening a pull request

> Endless Sky is developed by a community of volunteers. We're a collection of people with various different interests and skill sets, so the type of pull request you open will influence who will be looking at it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Endless Sky is developed by a community of volunteers. We are a collection of people with various different interests and skill sets, so the type of pull request you open will influence who will be looking at it.
```

> All pull requests go through a review process before being merged. We have a group of dedicated Reviewers who help provide reviews to pull requests as they come in. We also have a group of Developers who make determinations on what does and does not get merged, and are the ones who have the access to merge pull requests.

Reviewer: >  who have the access to merge pull requests

Maybe permission would sound better? Or just say that they are the ones who merge PRs?

Author: ```suggestion
All pull requests go through a review process before being merged. We have a group of dedicated Reviewers who help provide reviews to pull requests as they come in. We also have a group of Developers who make determinations on what does and does not get merged, and are the ones with the permissions to merge pull requests.
```

> If proposing a major pull request, start by posting an issue and discussing the best way to implement it. Often the first strategy that occurs to you will not be the cleanest or most effective way to implement a new feature.

Reviewer 3: can we change this from major to a more descriptive term, as small features might want to have an issue assigned to it too

* For smaller pull requests, such as typo fixes, it may only require a Developer seeing your pull request in order for it to be merged.

> * Larger pull requests typically receive reviews from multiple Reviewers and Developers before they are merged. That, in addition to the current backlog of open pull requests, can result in it taking months before a larger pull request is merged. We ask for your patience when waiting for your pull request to be reviewed.

Reviewer 2: Language to better communicate that you're not just waiting for *a* one-and-done review and then merge. That there's a *process* (i.e. potentially many steps) to be performed.
```suggestion
* Larger pull requests typically receive reviews from multiple Reviewers and Developers before they are merged. That, in addition to the current backlog of open pull requests, can result in the full review process taking a number of months before a larger pull request may be merged. We ask for your patience while your pull request undergoes the review process.
```

> * Larger pull requests typically receive reviews from multiple Reviewers and Developers before they are merged. That, in addition to the current backlog of open pull requests, can result in the full review process taking a number of months before a larger pull request may be merged. We ask for your patience while your pull request undergoes the review process.

Reviewer 6: Adding a paragraph regarding what I mentioned here: https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/pull/9075#issuecomment-1657270434
```suggestion
* Larger pull requests typically receive reviews from multiple Reviewers and Developers before they are merged. That, in addition to the current backlog of open pull requests, can result in the full review process taking a number of months before a larger pull request may be merged. We ask for your patience while your pull request undergoes the review process.

We also ask that large content pull requests (for example, pull requests that introduce a new faction or large storyline/campaign) be discussed in a [discussion post](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions) or on the game's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/ZeuASSx). This is so other contributors get a chance to review your writing when it is still in the planning stages, and prevent conflicts with other planned storylines or with existing lore. We would like to avoid situations where someone puts in a lot of effort into writing a new campaign or faction, only to be told that it requires fundamental changes once they've finished and submitted a pull request. It is much easier to make conceptual changes to a story when it is not yet finalized and written.
```

Reviewer 3: > We ask for your patience while your pull request undergoes the review process.

~~Sounds like one of these airport messages~~

> The type (and size) of pull request you open will also influence when it is eligible to be merged. We release updates alternating between "stable" and "unstable" versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The type of pull request you open will also influence when it is eligible to be merged. We release updates alternating between "stable" and "unstable" versions.
```
size has been discussed above

* During the development of an unstable release, any type of pull request is up for merging. Unstable releases are typically developed over the course of three to four months and with odd version numbers (e.g. v0.10.1).
* During the development of a stable release, we typically only accept bug fixes and minor content tweaks. Stable releases are typically developed over the course of two to six weeks and with even version numbers (e.g. v0.10.2).

> If you've opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Or if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.

Reviewer 2: Suggested expansion because this timeline has on occasion been especially hard on some people who came into things blind.
```suggestion
If you've opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Or if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.
Additionally, towards the end of an unstable release, Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance. A large pull request opened towards the end of an unstable release may not be reviewed at all until after the start of the next unstable release period. In this scenario your large PR may not receive much attention for upwards of 8 weeks after opening. Please understand that this may be unavoidable, and does not mean that the PR is valued less than anything else during that time. Please be especially patient if you find yourself in this unfortunate circumstance.
```

Author: Combining your and tibe's suggestions.
```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.
Additionally, towards the end of an unstable release, Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance. A large pull request opened towards the end of an unstable release may not be reviewed at all until after the start of the next unstable release period. In this scenario your large PR may not receive much attention for upwards of eight weeks after opening. Please understand that this may be unavoidable, and does not mean that the PR is valued less than anything else during that time. Please be especially patient if you find yourself in this unfortunate circumstance.
```

> If you've opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Or if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.
```

> If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

Reviewer 6: In my experience, reviews usually aren't done based on whether something can get merged this release cycle, especially for larger PRs.
```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.
```

Reviewer 2: It's already been watered down substantially - the purpose of this is to manage expectations.
The key people who need to review something for it to be merged may not review it in that circumstance, and so the point is to communicate that to people in a way that minimises future drama.

# Contributing to Endless Sky

## Issues

### Posting issues

The [issues page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/issues) on GitHub is for tracking bugs and feature requests. When posting a new issue, please:

* Check to make sure it is not a duplicate of an existing issue.
* Create a separate "issue" for each bug you are reporting and each feature you are requesting.
* Choose the correct issue template and fill it out to the best of your ability.

> * Do not use the issues page for things other than bug reports and feature requests. Use the [discussions page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions) instead.

Author: ```suggestion
* Do not use the issues page for things other than what match the provided issue templates. Use the [discussions page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions) instead. Examples of what the discussion pages would be used for include topics that are not looking for a resolution (as the point of an issue is to have it be resolved) or topics that are extremely broad and not befitting of an issue because there is no single resolution to the topic.
```

Author: We should probably make a balance template.

> If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting? Remember that this is a game, not a simulator. Changes will not be made purely for the sake of realism, especially if they introduce needless complexity or aggravation.

Author: ```suggestion
If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting within the existing scope of the game? Remember that this is a simulator game; while you may find such games fun or interesting, that is not the type of game that Endless Sky is trying to be.
```

* For smaller pull requests, such as typo fixes, it may only require a Developer seeing your pull request in order for it to be merged.
* Larger pull requests typically receive reviews from multiple Reviewers and Developers before they are merged. That, in addition to the current backlog of open pull requests, can result in the full review process taking a number of months before a larger pull request may be merged. We ask for your patience while your pull request undergoes the review process.

The type (and size) of pull request you open will also influence when it is eligible to be merged. We release updates alternating between "stable" and "unstable" versions.
* During the development of an unstable release, any type of pull request is up for merging. Unstable releases are typically developed over the course of three to four months and with odd version numbers (e.g. v0.10.1).
* During the development of a stable release, we typically only accept bug fixes and minor content tweaks. Stable releases are typically developed over the course of two to six weeks and with even version numbers (e.g. v0.10.2).

> If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged.
> Additionally, towards the end of an unstable release, Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance. A large pull request opened towards the end of an unstable release may not be reviewed at all until after the start of the next unstable release period. In this scenario your large PR may not receive much attention for upwards of eight weeks after opening. Please understand that this may be unavoidable, and does not mean that the PR is valued less than anything else during that time. Please be especially patient if you find yourself in this unfortunate circumstance.

Author: This last line feels largely redundant with what came before it, and is a bit overly apologetic, almost as if it's the expected.
```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before it has a chance to be merged, as the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and because Developers and Reviewers are often focused closely on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.
```

Reviewer 2: Amazinite, it *is* an expected case...
